---
layout: post
title: Day 1 and Day 2
---

Day 1 (12/11/24):
For the first day of the project, I started by familiarizing myself with the pygame library, I thought of reading the pygame documentation but I decided I would best learn from a video. I watched this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9VG3Pztok8, in the video I learned the basic setup of Pygame and how to get a game window running. I was feeling really happy throughout this day as following the tutorial was simple and informative, although it was not without its challenges. There was a segment in the video where when coding the movement of an object he used, 'move_ip()' which puzzled me as I wondered why he used that method and not a method like 'move'. After a bit of research, I found out that 'move_ip' directly changes the object while 'move' makes a new object to the moved position and leaves the original object unchanged. Another thing that I learned that day was that pygame uses a while loop to make the game screen and uses pygame.display.update() allows for the screen to update every iteration of the while loop. A future goal I would like to set for myself for the next day is to learn object collision and how to make objects interact with each other, as I want to get started on spawning the food for my snake game and having something happen to the player object when it touches the food. 

Day 2 (12/12/24)
Day 2 of the project was a little more rough than the first day and required a little more patience. Today I worked on trying to get the current position of the player object this time I tried to go solo and consult as few sources as possible to try and challenge myself. What I did was define a variable called player_pos in the game loop as the player position always changes and had it equal a tuple (player.x, player.y). I did a tuple because tuples are immutable and I do not want those values to be changed. I had this player_pos printed in the loop. When I ran the code I was really happy and excited to see that every time I moved a set of coordinates would print in the terminal. Then I created an object called obj and did the same thing I did with the player object, get the coordinates. Then I tried making an if statement that if both of the positions were equal to each other then change the color of the player object. I was very disappointed to see it did not work as the player object would overlap with the obstacle object and not trigger the if statement. I gained insight from one of my great friends who tells me that the if statement won't work because both objects will have to be in the EXACT same place and that is nearly impossible. Today was a very informative day as I tried tackling a problem on my own and helped me build confidence and familiarity with the module, but it also showed me how I could use some help from external sources. My goal for the next day of working on this project is to get the object collision working and when the player object collides with the obstacle I want the obstacle to spawn in another random spot on the screen. 

