---
layout: post
title: Day 6
---

Day 6 (12/18/24):

  Today is the final day of working on my project, I spent this day making minor tweaks to my code and changing my approach to how I checked for self-collision. After struggling all day yesterday on how to check if the head collided with the body I decided to take a different approach a sort of compromise. Instead of detecting if the head collided with one of the segments I decided to check if the head's x and y coordinates equaled any of the x and y coordinates of the segments. After testing out the code it did work if the head explicitly hit the body, but I do belive there could be some cases where the head clips the last segment and the snake won't reset (would be much appreciated if someone found a bug like this). After these 6 days of hard work, I am glad to look back on it and say it was all worth it, cause I am quite happy with what I have made. To reflect on the course I think the most important thing I learned was the process of tackling a coding problem and knowing how and when to use certain data types, functions, and methods. Overall I do belive this course helped me deepen my understanding of not only Python but also coding itself. Coding is a process and it takes time, taking breaks and being patient with your code implementation is key to success. Early semester I thought the course wouldn't be too bad and would be like any other beginner coding class, but as the semester kept going the course challenged me not only to solve coding problems but to think about what was the most effective way of implementing it. It taught me to think critically in the context of code, and although we didn't get into coding games like I would have hoped to, I am proud to look back on the previous missions and training and say, 'I did that' (especially the int to English). My tip to incoming students is to not underestimate this course and to not be scared to ask questions if you are confused because this course builds on itself and if you don't have a strong base it won't go well. It has been a great privilege of this class. 

Here is the link to my Python snake file: [Snake](../files/snake_main.py)
