---
layout: post
title: Day 3 and Day 4
---

Day 3 (12/14/24):

The third day of working on the project has brought a lot of great things and I have gotten a lot done. Firstly I am happy to announce I did meet the goal I set for myself on day 2. I watched this tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BHr9jxKithk, which greatly described how object collision works in Pygame. I had it where in the game loop, if the player object collides with the food object, then the food x and y values would be randomized using the random module and redrawn on the screen. This worked great and thrilled me as I was one step closer to finishing. The next thing I wanted to do was make a boundary as in snake if you bump into the boundaries of the game, the snake resets. I utilized the same tutorial I mentioned before and I drew 4 lines 5 pixels off the screen limit on all 4 sides.
Now that I had 4 lines the tutorial showed that the '.clipline()' method accounts for if an object crosses or touches the line in which something will happen. The clip line method only takes one argument, and I had 4 separate lines, meaning I needed 4 different 'if player.clipline()' lines. I sat there for a little bit, stumped because I felt like there had to be another way to go about it, as writing 4 lines of that felt very inefficient. After a while, I realized I could put the line objects into a list with a variable called lines and I could have a for loop in the game loop: 'for line in lines' and then draw each of the lines. This was a breakthrough for me and it worked great. This reminded me of when we open files we do lines = file.readlines() and then we can loop through those lines by using 'for line in lines'. Now that I had food that spawned in a random location every time the player touched it and boundaries that reset the snake's position to the starting position every time it touched a border it was time to move on to making the snake grow. For my future goal, I would like to have a baseline of how to grow the snake (maybe not fully functional) and also maybe a scoring system to keep track of how many times the snake eats a piece of food.

Day 4 (12/15/24) and a bit of (12/16/24):

Day 4 of the project has been another great day of progress, firstly I do want to say that I did get to meet my goal for this day after a long time working. This day I got a lot done and there is a lot to talk about, first I wanted to have it where the snake moves continuously in a direction until the user inputs another direction. So what I did was I made a new variable called player_direction and had it choose a random direction from a list using the 'choice' method from random. Then it had it where it would detect if the player had input any of the arrow keys and if they did the player_direction variable would change and thus make the player move in the last inputted direction until another one was input. I also realized that reversing your snake is not possible in the actual snake game so I made sure to add a statement that 'if key up is pressed and the snake is not currently going down then go up'. Another huge breakthrough today was making the snake grow and how I went about doing this was I changed the player into a list. Then if the player collided with the food I made a new object called 'new_segment' which would inherit all the characteristics such as the position and shape of the last segment. Then I would append this segment to the player object. I also made sure to draw the player by using a for loop, 'for segment in player, draw the segment'. I felt really good about this code as I did a lot of this without any external help and I was excited to see if this would work, to my disappointment it did not work as intended. When the snake collides with the food it creates a new object but it does not follow the player's head (the 0th index of the list). I was quite perplexed as to how I could go about fixing this issue. I had a vague idea of what I wanted to do, I knew I wanted every segment except the head to follow the segment in front of it, but I just did not know a method or function which would allow me to align a segment with the other. I decided to look into the pygame documentation and after a few minutes of digging, I found a method called '.topleft' which would basically align the top left of one object with another. After collecting all the pieces of the puzzle I finally combined it all into one great piece of code:  

#for every segment in the snake except for the head had the last segment follow the topleft of the other last segment

for i in range(len(player)-1, 0, -1):
    player[i].topleft = player[i-1].topleft

This was a massive breakthrough and allowed the snake to actually GROW!! This was a massive moment for me and I couldn't have been more happy. For my future goal, I would like to have a point system in place to help the player know how many times they have eaten a piece of food and maybe implement some other fun features, as the fundamental parts of the snake game were now done.

