---
layout: post
title: Day 5
---

Day 5:

Today is the 5th day and maybe the last day of working on this snake coding project, today I tried implementing a way to check if the snake head (player[0]) collides with a body segment. I wanted to implement this because one of the key features of a snake is that if the snake's head collides with the body, the game resets. How I implemented this was first cheking if the snake's length was longer than 1 because there aren't any body segments to collide with if the body is just 1 segment. Then for every segment in the snake except for the head (player[1:]), check if the head (player[0]) collides with any of the segments. I was feeling good about this code and looking forward to it working. Sadly the implementation fails, as when the snake grows by 1 the snake resets. I tried changing the if statement to if the length is 2 but then I remembered that the way I implemented the snake to grow had the segments overlap with each other. So I thought that the head might be overlapping with the 1st segment of the body so I change the for loop to: 'for segment in player[2:]'. Disappointingly the same thing happens, the snake grows to the length of 2, and then the snake resets. I was quite frustrated and confused, so I changed the number to an arbitrary number: 'for segment in player[10:]' thinking, 'surely the head won't be able to collide with the 10th segment, right?'. Lo and behold the same thing happened, it grows to a  length of 10 and then resets. By this time I was over it, so I decided to implement a scoring system with the help of this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=9bBgyOkoBQ0&t=192s. I have it where if the snake collides with food then score += 1 and if the snake collides with the wall then score = 0. This made me feel a bit better as at least I got one thing working for today. For my future goal, I would like to have (HOPEFULLY) a working self-collision system so I can finally wrap up this project, and get working on my slides.
